Hi everybody and welcome back.
Now we've seen the for loop which takes a collection of items and executes a block of code once for
each item in the collection.
While loops don't as long or while a certain condition is true.
Use a while loop to count from 1 to 10.
So let's add in our comments first.
Today's date is the second of November.
Hard to believe that it's not very long till Christmas.
The order is myself or you.
Oh and using while loops.
OK so let's have a look.
So first you want to set our current number so variable current number is 1.
Next we're going to introduce a while loop.
So while our current number is less than or equal to 10 due to following print the current number and
each time that happens at 1 and 1 record number so increase every time for a while loop.
1 2 3 4 and so on.
So let's run this and see what it looks like.
Nice.
OK so that is very simple introduction into a WHILE loop and a very effective demonstration.
We start counting from one by setting the value of the current number to 1 the while loop is then set
to run as long as the value of current number is less than or equal to 10.
The code inside the loop prints the value of the current number and then adds 1.
So a nice quick little introduction into why loops to here.
I'm gonna be using them an awful lot in this section.
Thanks for listening and I'll see you in the next Lechter.